# Bank_Management_System

The bank management system is an application for maintaining accounts in a bank. The main purpose of the Bank Management System is to ensure that all banking operations such as account creation, transaction records and loan/credit applications are carried out easily with one click. Bank Management System in Python is a mini-application so it doesn’t consume high resources or needs specific windows or PC requirements. 
For my project, I wanted to build a program that could collate E-banking into a precise, efficient and user-friendly application. The program can be used by the Bank Teller as well as the Account holder. If one confirms they are the Bank Teller, they are taken to the Admin section of the program where they can view all the options: To create accounts, Display all accounts, Search for an account (by name of the account holder) and Add a new account. If one confirms they are the Account holder, they are taken to the customer section of the program where they can view all the options: To display the customer’s account, Deposit amount into Current, Savings and Term Deposit accounts, Withdraw amount from their accounts, Check balance in their accounts, Update credentials in their account, Apply for credit and/or debit card, Display credentials of their credit/debit cards, Perform transactions using their credit/debit cards, Check balance in their credit/debit cards, Pay-off their credit card debt, Discontinue their credit/debit card, Issue a cheque, Deposit a cheque, Apply for Student, Mortgage and Personal loans, Display loan amount, Repay loan and Give us feedback. The program functions with the help of Binary and Text files. Each function requires you to enter your account number and pin to proceed. The binary files contain a nested list with all the accounts as lists. 
My program makes calculating and recording easy, and will help in making local banks advance in E-services, which has recently grown in importance due to the current pandemic. 
